# Lab 3: Creating a User Login and Registration System

**[Optional]** If what is being submitted is an individual Lab or Assignment. Otherwise, include a brief one paragraph description about the project.

* *Date Created*: 28 10 2025
* *Last Modification Date*: 29 10 2025
* *Lab URL*: <https://dal.brightspace.com/d2l/le/content/392458/viewContent/5070772/View>

## Description

This lab activity is to use arrow functions, destructuring assignment syntax, Maps and Sets, and error handling techniques in creating a user login and registration system using JS ES6 and JSON.


## Git Lab and Timberlea

*Git Lab*: <https://git.cs.dal.ca/ttran/csci3172> 

*Timberlea* (this will automatically display index.html): <https://web.cs.dal.ca/~ttran/csci3172/labs/lab3/>

*Timberlea* for login.html: <https://web.cs.dal.ca/~ttran/csci3172/labs/lab3/login.html>


## Authors

If what is being submitted is an individual Lab or Assignment, you may simply include your name and email address. Otherwise list the members of your group.

* [Truc Tran](tr594165@dal.ca)


## Implementation logic and reasoning

This project implements a simple registration and login process using in-memory JSON object to simulate user's database.

For registration, the registration form includes email, username, password and validates them through regular expression. Invalid input will have an error message displayed next to it and input box will be highlighted for clear feedback. If the user register successfully, the new data is added to the JS object and a success message will be displayed on both registration page and console. 

For login process, the login form includes username and password and validates them against the JS object. If the username and the password matches, a success message will be displayed; otherwise, an error message is shown.

Maps and Sets are used for handling user data. A Map is used to create user JS object and Set is used to maintain unique items (username and password). With Map and Set, we can use its method .has to check for existing values and add new data without checking for duplicates.


## Built With

<!--- Provide a list of the frameworks used to build this application, your list should include the name of the framework used, the url where the framework is available for download and what the framework was used for, see the example below --->

No framework is used.


## Sources Used

If in completing your lab / assignment / project you used any interpretation of someone else's code, then provide a list of where the code was implemented, how it was implemented, why it was implemented, and how it was modified. See the sections below for more details.

No outside source code is reused.


## Artificial Intelligence Tools Used
If in completing your lab / assignment / project you used any Artificial Intelligence Tools or Plugins, then provide a list of the tools or plugins used, the prompt used, the code generated by the AI, where the code was implemented, how it was implemented, why it was implemented, and how it was modified. See the sections below for more details.

No AI tools are used.


## Acknowledgments

* Hat tip to anyone whose code was used
* Inspiration
* etc